tutorial/steps/step02.md, before:

# Let's start coding!

Inside the `scripts` folder create a new file named `main.js`. This is going to be where we write all of our code.

INSERT A VIDEO ON HOW TO CREATE A NEW FILE

Then inside our [index.html](../src/index.html) find the line that says:

```html
<script type="module" src="scripts/final.js"></script>
```

and change it to:

```html
<script type="module" src="scripts/main.js"></script>
```

Now we are loading our new blank file instead of our final file.

Inside `main.js` file put:

```javascript
console.log("Does this work");
```

Make sure to save the file, then in your web browser [open the web inspector](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/open/) and click the "Console" tab. Then reload the web page. You should see the message "Does this work" without quotes in the console. The webpage should be completely black. You can read more about the console tab below.

## Review

What we did was create a blank Javascript file named `main.js`. We then connected this new file to our [index.html](../src/index.html) file. Inside the Javascript file, we put a line of code that showed us a message in the console. The console is a place we can use to test and "[debug](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Debugging)" our code.

### What is console.log?

When you are writing Javascript code you will use the method `console.log()` very frequently. This method outputs a message inside of the console tab in our web browser for testing. Testing and debugging are terms for seeing what's going on inside of the code. Testing and debugging code are purely for us the developer to see how code is running. **It does not do anything in our end result.** Learn more about `console.log()` [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Console/log).

The reason we added `console.log("Does this work");` inside of our `main.js` file was to test if our `main.js` file was being loaded correctly. If it was not loaded correctly we would not see the message output in our console.

### Breaking things

Go ahead and change:

```html
<script type="module" src="scripts/main.js"></script>
```

to be:

```html
<script type="module" src="scripts/yolo.js"></script>
```

Now reload the browser and look in the console. Do you see `Does this work`? The reason you don't see this anymore is that we are telling our HTML to load a file that does not exist.

Undo what we did and make sure your [index.html](../src/index.html) file says:

```html
<script type="module" src="scripts/main.js"></script>
```

# Next Step

Now that we know our `main.js` file is hooked up we can move on to the [next step](step03.md)!

Commit message:

revised steps
added sample filetrees
added file and folder creation tutorial
added more details to asset setup
added sample class results
added congratulations at end

tutorial/steps/step02.md, after:

# Let's start coding!

Inside the `scripts` folder create a new file named `main.js`. This is going to be where we write all of our code.

You can do this with these steps:
1. Right-click on the scripts folder to view the menu:
![Creating a new file](../images/new-file-menu.png)

2. Type in `main.js` after clicking "New File..." and being given the option to create a filename:

![Naming main.js file](../images/file-naming.png)

3. press the <kbd>Return</kbd> or <kbd>Enter</kbd> key. And voila! You've created a new JavaScript file.
<!-- INSERT A VIDEO ON HOW TO CREATE A NEW FILE -->

After making the file, enter our [index.html](../../src/index.html) file by clicking on it in the directory, and find the line that says:

```html
<script type="module" src="./scripts/final.js"></script>
```

and change it to:

```html
<script type="module" src="./scripts/main.js"></script>
```

Now we are loading our new blank file instead of our final file. You'll be making your own custom game in `main.js`, while leaving `final.js` as-is. That is an example as to how you can structure and code your project.

Inside your `main.js` file, put:

```javascript
console.log("Does this work");
```

Make sure to save the file, then in your web browser [open the web inspector](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/open/) and click the "Console" tab. You can also open the inspector tool by right-clicking anywhere on your page and clicking "Inspect". Then reload the web page. You should see the message "Does this work" without quotes in the console. The webpage should be completely black. You can read more about the console tab below.

## Review

What we did was create a blank Javascript file named `main.js`. We then connected this new file to our [index.html](../src/index.html) file. Inside the Javascript file, we put a line of code that showed us a message in the console. The console is a place we can use to test and "[debug](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Debugging)" our code.

### What is console.log?

When you are writing Javascript code you will use the method `console.log()` very frequently. This method outputs a message inside of the console tab in our web browser for testing. Testing and debugging are terms for seeing what's going on inside of the code. Testing and debugging code are purely for us the developer to see how code is running. **It does not do anything in our end result.** Learn more about `console.log()` [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Console/log).

The reason we added `console.log("Does this work");` inside of our `main.js` file was to test if our `main.js` file was being loaded correctly. If it was not loaded correctly we would not see the message output in our console.

### Breaking things

Go ahead and change:

```html
<script type="module" src="./scripts/main.js"></script>
```

to be:

```html
<script type="module" src="./scripts/yolo.js"></script>
```

Now reload the browser and look in the console. Do you see `Does this work`? The reason you don't see this anymore is that we are telling our HTML to load a file that does not exist.

Undo what we did and make sure your [index.html](../../src/index.html) file says:

```html
<script type="module" src="./scripts/main.js"></script>
```

# Next Step

Now that we know our `main.js` file is hooked up and ready to edit we can move on to the [next step](step03.md)!
